traefik/README.md, before:

# Universal Traefik Reverse Proxy

Universal Traefik reverse proxy with automatic SSL certificates from Let's Encrypt for any application.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd traefik

# Install Traefik
make install
```

### 2. Configuration

Edit the `env.traefik` file:

```bash
# Domain configuration
DOMAIN=your-domain.com
ACME_EMAIL=admin@your-domain.com

# Network configuration
TRAEFIK_NETWORK=traefik
```

### 3. Start

```bash
# Start Traefik
make start

# Check status
make status
```

## 📋 Available Commands

```bash
make start      # Start Traefik
make stop       # Stop Traefik
make restart    # Restart Traefik
make logs       # Show logs
make status     # Show status
make clean      # Clean up data
make network    # Create network
make install    # Initial installation
```

## 🌐 Service Access

### Traefik Dashboard
- **URL**: `http://localhost:8080`
- **Description**: Web interface for monitoring Traefik

### API
- **URL**: `http://localhost:8080/api/rawdata`
- **Description**: JSON API for getting route information

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `DOMAIN` | Your domain | `example.com` |
| `ACME_EMAIL` | Email for Let's Encrypt | `admin@example.com` |
| `TRAEFIK_NETWORK` | Docker network name | `traefik` |

### Configuration Files

- `docker-compose.yml` - Main Docker Compose configuration
- `traefik.yml` - Traefik configuration
- `env.traefik` - Environment variables
- `letsencrypt/` - SSL certificates folder

## 🔐 SSL Certificates

Traefik automatically obtains SSL certificates from Let's Encrypt for all domains.

### Supported Domains

- `traefik.your-domain.com` - Traefik Dashboard
- `your-app.your-domain.com` - Your application
- `metrics.your-domain.com` - Metrics (if configured)

## 🌍 Network

Traefik creates a `traefik` network that all services should connect to.

### Connecting a Service to the Network

```yaml
# In your service's docker-compose.yml
networks:
  - traefik

networks:
  traefik:
    external: true
```

## 📊 Monitoring

### Logs

```bash
# Show logs
make logs

# Real-time logs
docker-compose logs -f traefik
```

### Metrics

Traefik provides Prometheus metrics on port 8080.

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Issue: SSL Not Working

**Solution:**
1. Check that the domain points to your server
2. Ensure ports 80 and 443 are open
3. Check logs: `make logs`

### Issue: Network Not Created

**Solution:**
```bash
# Create network manually
docker network create traefik
```

### Issue: Dashboard Not Working

**Solution:**
1. Check that port 8080 is open
2. Ensure Traefik is running: `make status`
3. Check logs: `make logs`

## 🔄 Updates

```bash
# Stop Traefik
make stop

# Update image
docker-compose pull

# Start again
make start
```

## 📁 File Structure

```
traefik/
├── docker-compose.yml    # Docker Compose configuration
├── traefik.yml          # Traefik configuration
├── env.traefik          # Environment variables
├── Makefile             # Management commands
├── README.md            # Documentation
└── letsencrypt/         # SSL certificates (created automatically)
```

## 🎯 Application Integration

To integrate with any application, add to your application's `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  your-app:
    # ... your app configuration
    networks:
      - traefik
    labels:
      - "traefik.enable=true"
      - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.rule=Host(`yourapp.${DOMAIN}`)"
      - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.entrypoints=websecure"
      - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.tls.certresolver=letsencrypt"
      - "traefik.http.services.yourapp.loadbalancer.server.port=8080"
```

### Path-based Routing

For path-based routing (e.g., `domain.com/app`):

```yaml
labels:
  - "traefik.enable=true"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.rule=Host(`${DOMAIN}`) && PathPrefix(`/app`)"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.entrypoints=websecure"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.tls.certresolver=letsencrypt"
  - "traefik.http.services.yourapp.loadbalancer.server.port=8080"
```

## 🔒 Security

### Basic Authentication

To add basic authentication to your services:

```yaml
labels:
  - "traefik.enable=true"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.rule=Host(`${DOMAIN}`) && PathPrefix(`/app`)"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.entrypoints=websecure"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.tls.certresolver=letsencrypt"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.yourapp-auth.basicauth.users=${AUTH_HASH}"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.middlewares=yourapp-auth"
  - "traefik.http.services.yourapp.loadbalancer.server.port=8080"
```

Generate auth hash:
```bash
echo $(htpasswd -nbB admin yourpassword)
```

## 📞 Support

If you encounter problems:

1. Check logs: `make logs`
2. Check status: `make status`
3. Check configuration in `env.traefik`
4. Ensure domain points to server

Commit message:

Update Docker Compose configurations and Makefiles for monitoring and Traefik. Added user permissions, improved environment variable handling, and enhanced logging output. Updated Grafana dashboard paths and added Traefik network configuration. Adjusted README for clearer instructions on environment file setup.

traefik/README.md, after:

# Universal Traefik Reverse Proxy

Universal Traefik reverse proxy with automatic SSL certificates from Let's Encrypt for any application.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd traefik

# Install Traefik
make install
```

### 2. Configuration

Edit the `env.traefik` file:

```bash
DOMAIN=your-domain.com
ACME_EMAIL=admin@your-domain.com
TRAEFIK_NETWORK=traefik
```

**Important**: Do not add comments or spaces around the `=` sign in the env file.

### 3. Start

```bash
# Start Traefik
make start

# Check status
make status
```

## 📋 Available Commands

```bash
make start      # Start Traefik
make stop       # Stop Traefik
make restart    # Restart Traefik
make logs       # Show logs
make status     # Show status
make clean      # Clean up data
make network    # Create network
make install    # Initial installation
```

## 🌐 Service Access

### Traefik Dashboard
- **URL**: `http://localhost:8080`
- **Description**: Web interface for monitoring Traefik

### API
- **URL**: `http://localhost:8080/api/rawdata`
- **Description**: JSON API for getting route information

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `DOMAIN` | Your domain | `example.com` |
| `ACME_EMAIL` | Email for Let's Encrypt | `admin@example.com` |
| `TRAEFIK_NETWORK` | Docker network name | `traefik` |

### Configuration Files

- `docker-compose.yml` - Main Docker Compose configuration
- `traefik.yml` - Traefik configuration
- `env.traefik` - Environment variables
- `letsencrypt/` - SSL certificates folder

## 🔐 SSL Certificates

Traefik automatically obtains SSL certificates from Let's Encrypt for all domains.

### Supported Domains

- `traefik.your-domain.com` - Traefik Dashboard
- `your-app.your-domain.com` - Your application
- `metrics.your-domain.com` - Metrics (if configured)

## 🌍 Network

Traefik creates a `traefik` network that all services should connect to.

### Connecting a Service to the Network

```yaml
# In your service's docker-compose.yml
networks:
  - traefik

networks:
  traefik:
    external: true
```

## 📊 Monitoring

### Logs

```bash
# Show logs
make logs

# Real-time logs
docker-compose logs -f traefik
```

### Metrics

Traefik provides Prometheus metrics on port 8080.

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Issue: SSL Not Working

**Solution:**
1. Check that the domain points to your server
2. Ensure ports 80 and 443 are open
3. Check logs: `make logs`

### Issue: Network Not Created

**Solution:**
```bash
# Create network manually
docker network create traefik
```

### Issue: Dashboard Not Working

**Solution:**
1. Check that port 8080 is open
2. Ensure Traefik is running: `make status`
3. Check logs: `make logs`

## 🔄 Updates

```bash
# Stop Traefik
make stop

# Update image
docker-compose pull

# Start again
make start
```

## 📁 File Structure

```
traefik/
├── docker-compose.yml    # Docker Compose configuration
├── traefik.yml          # Traefik configuration
├── env.traefik          # Environment variables
├── Makefile             # Management commands
├── README.md            # Documentation
└── letsencrypt/         # SSL certificates (created automatically)
```

## 🎯 Application Integration

To integrate with any application, add to your application's `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
services:
  your-app:
    # ... your app configuration
    networks:
      - traefik
    labels:
      - "traefik.enable=true"
      - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.rule=Host(`yourapp.${DOMAIN}`)"
      - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.entrypoints=websecure"
      - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.tls.certresolver=letsencrypt"
      - "traefik.http.services.yourapp.loadbalancer.server.port=8080"
```

### Path-based Routing

For path-based routing (e.g., `domain.com/app`):

```yaml
labels:
  - "traefik.enable=true"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.rule=Host(`${DOMAIN}`) && PathPrefix(`/app`)"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.entrypoints=websecure"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.tls.certresolver=letsencrypt"
  - "traefik.http.services.yourapp.loadbalancer.server.port=8080"
```

## 🔒 Security

### Basic Authentication

To add basic authentication to your services:

```yaml
labels:
  - "traefik.enable=true"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.rule=Host(`${DOMAIN}`) && PathPrefix(`/app`)"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.entrypoints=websecure"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.tls.certresolver=letsencrypt"
  - "traefik.http.middlewares.yourapp-auth.basicauth.users=${AUTH_HASH}"
  - "traefik.http.routers.yourapp.middlewares=yourapp-auth"
  - "traefik.http.services.yourapp.loadbalancer.server.port=8080"
```

Generate auth hash:
```bash
echo $(htpasswd -nbB admin yourpassword)
```

## 📞 Support

If you encounter problems:

1. Check logs: `make logs`
2. Check status: `make status`
3. Check configuration in `env.traefik`
4. Ensure domain points to server
